Throughout her ministry at Bob Jones University, Linda Abrams has exemplified a dedication and passion for education that inspire her colleagues and students. By the end of this academic year, May 2025, Linda will have completed 43 years of service to BJU.

Linda received a BA in History from Berry College and an MA in Modern European History from the University of Maryland. She also completed graduate work in Political Science from American Public University. She likewise holds a Certificate in Online Teaching from the University of Wisconsin. Her expertise spans eighteenth- and nineteenth-century European history as well as American government, areas of study to which she has made significant contributions through her teaching career and scholarship.

As the founder and director of BJU’s Center for Effective Teaching and Engaged Learning (CETEL), Linda has been instrumental in enhancing the pedagogical skills of BJU faculty. She directs activities and projects for new faculty members; the CETEL May Institute, which provides professional development sessions for faculty members; and "Edubreaks,” seminars on special topics relative to teaching expertise. Through these contributions, Linda seeks to improve teaching effectiveness and foster experiential learning on campus. According to colleagues, Linda’s efforts have elevated the teaching standards at BJU, making her an invaluable asset to the University. “Linda is a teacher’s teacher,” said a friend, “and she understands the needs of both faculty members and students. With this understanding, she empowers others to succeed.”

Linda's commitment to professional development is evident through her continuous engagement with modern teaching methods, participation in education conferences, and extensive research on educational theory. For twenty-two years she has served as an advisor to the BJU delegation to the South Carolina Student Legislature, leading the group to win “Best Delegation” award fifteen times.

In addition to her academic and administrative roles, Linda is a respected political analyst. National media outlets such as The Boston Globe, The Charlotte News and Observer, Die Zeit, and Bloomberg News have featured her interviews, and Greenville’s WYFF 4 News frequently highlights Linda as a political analyst. Her expertise lies in the intersection of conservative Christianity and the American political system.

Linda's dedication to education extends beyond the classroom. She has led study abroad courses to France and missions teams to rural Kenya and urban South Africa. Her extensive travels enrich her teaching, and she believes integrating literature, music, and art into her classes offers students a well-rounded understanding of the subject matter. Actively involved in her church, she serves in the nursery and teaches Sunday school to elementary and junior high young people. Linda has also completed numerous language courses at BJU to better engage with her church’s Spanish-speaking ministry. Linda enjoys traveling with her husband (retired faculty member Carl Abrams), spending time with her grandchildren, and cooking. 

For her humble spirit, ongoing commitment to Bob Jones University, and desire to show Christ in everything she does, Linda Abrams is the 2025 Vintage co-dedicatee. 
